+++
date = '2025-08-29T10:35:18-07:00'
draft = false
title = 'From Wall Street to Main Street: Cybercrime and the Construction
Industry'
+++

I used to build houses. I was pretty good at it, believe it or not. My formative
years in the military were squeezed in between years of building, managing and
strugling in the construction industry. It's a hard life, but the pay can be
great and there is something to be said about building a physical thing that
will be around for a long time. Craftsmanship is a unique trait, and the trades
are where some of the most amazing things get built. Perhaps it may be common
knowledge that the trades are notoriously averese to the tides of technology,
perhaps not. I would argue that for being such a large sector of small
businesses, there is a problem with the adoption of technology. According to the
Small Business Administration, greater that 10% of all small to medium sized
businesses are in the construction sector. Even more astounding is that about
99.9% of all construction companies are considered small to medium sized
businesses. So, being conservative with our math, if about 45% of SMBs make up
the GDP of the United States, we can assume about 4-5% of GDP comes from this
uniquely small construction sector. This is not trivial.

When most people think of cybersecurity or hear about a cyberattack, visions of
global banks and Fortune 500 companies come to mind. "Big Tech, Inc. just lost
all their user data to an attack; move on, nothing to see." This is not
necessarily wrong, but it leaves a critical factor out of the equation. There is
a prevailing mindset that small businesses on Main Street are simply too small
to be a target. If 45% of the economy is too small to be a target, I have a
bridge in San Francisco for sale. The sad truth is that these small businesses
are prime targets for cyberattacks. Maybe not from nation state actors, but
cybercriminals are actively taking advantage of this market segment. Even worse,
one of the fastest growing targets in this target rich environment is the
construction sector.

The constrcution industry has long been defined by physical risk and hard
assets. The rapid digitization of the sector has created a perfect storm
enabling cybercriminals to capitalize like never before. This hits home for me.
I work with sever organizations in the space, helping them get this digital
tranformation doen in a secure and functional way. Their bottom line is my
bottom line. For years the risk management has been focused on the job site, and
to an extent it still should be. However the single biggest threat we see today
isn't somebody falling off the scaffolding; it's a phishing email.
